Repo sync for protected CLA branch (#10672)
MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-365-docs: microsoft-365/compliance/dlp-firefox-extension-get-started.md

ms.topic: conceptual
f1_keywords:
- 'ms.o365.cc.DLPLandingPage'
ms.service: O365-seccomp
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.collection:
- tier2
- purview-compliance
- m365solution-mip
- m365initiative-compliance
ms.custom: admindeeplinkCOMPLIANCE
search.appverid:
- MET150
description: "Prepare for and deploy the Microsoft Purview Firefox Extension."
---

# Get started with Microsoft Purview Firefox Extension (preview)

Use these procedures to roll out the Microsoft Purview Firefox Extension.

[!INCLUDE [purview-preview](../includes/purview-preview.md)]

## Before you begin

To use Microsoft Purview Extension, the device must be onboarded into endpoint DLP. Review these articles if you are new to DLP or endpoint DLP

- [Learn about Microsoft Purview Firefox Extension](dlp-firefox-extension-learn.md)
- [Learn about Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention](dlp-learn-about-dlp.md)
- [Create, test, and tune a DLP policy](create-test-tune-dlp-policy.md)
- [Create a DLP policy from a template](create-a-dlp-policy-from-a-template.md)
- [Learn about endpoint data loss prevention](endpoint-dlp-learn-about.md)
- [Get started with Endpoint data loss prevention](endpoint-dlp-getting-started.md)

> - [Onboarding tools and methods for Windows 10 devices](device-onboarding-overview.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Onboarding tools and methods for Windows 10/11 devices](device-onboarding-overview.md)
```

- [Using Endpoint data loss prevention](endpoint-dlp-using.md)

### SKU/subscriptions licensing

Before you get started, you should confirm your [Microsoft 365 subscription](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compare-microsoft-365-enterprise-plans?rtc=1) and any add-ons. To access and use Endpoint DLP functionality, you must have one of these subscriptions or add-ons.

- Microsoft 365 E5
- Microsoft 365 A5 (EDU)
- Microsoft 365 E5 compliance
- Microsoft 365 A5 compliance
- Microsoft 365 E5 information protection and governance
- Microsoft 365 A5 information protection and governance

For detailed licensing guidance, see [Microsoft 365 licensing guidance for security & compliance](/office365/servicedescriptions/microsoft-365-service-descriptions/microsoft-365-tenantlevel-services-licensing-guidance/microsoft-365-security-compliance-licensing-guidance#information-protection).

- Your org must be licensed for Endpoint DLP
- Your devices must be running Windows 10 x64 build 1809 or later.

> - The device must have Antimalware Client Version is 4.18.2202.x or later. Check your current version by opening **Windows Security** app, select the **Settings** icon, and then select **About**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The device must have Antimalware Client Version 4.18.2202.x or later. Check your current version by opening the **Windows Security** app, selecting the **Settings** icon, and then selecting **About**.
```

### Permissions

Data from Endpoint DLP can be viewed in [Activity explorer](data-classification-activity-explorer.md). There are seven roles that grant permission to activity explorer, the account you use for accessing the data must be a member of any one of them.

- Global admin
- Compliance admin
- Security admin
- Compliance data admin
- Global reader
- Security reader
- Reports reader

#### Roles and Role Groups

> There are roles and role groups that you can use to fine tune your access controls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are roles and role groups that you can use to fine-tune your access controls.
```

Here's a list of applicable roles. To learn more about them, see [Permissions in the Microsoft Purview compliance portal](microsoft-365-compliance-center-permissions.md).

- Information Protection Admin
- Information Protection Analyst
- Information Protection Investigator
- Information Protection Reader

> Here's a list of applicable role groups. To learn more about the, see [Permissions in the Microsoft Purview compliance portal](microsoft-365-compliance-center-permissions.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a list of applicable role groups. To learn more about them, see [Permissions in the Microsoft Purview compliance portal](microsoft-365-compliance-center-permissions.md).
```

- Information Protection
- Information Protection Admins
- Information Protection Analysts
- Information Protection Investigators
- Information Protection Readers

### Overall installation workflow

Deploying the extension is a multi-phase process. You can choose to install on one machine at a time, or use Microsoft Endpoint Manager or Group Policy for organization-wide deployments.

> 1. [Prepare your devices](#prepare-your-devices).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Prepare your devices](#prepare-your-devices)
```

> 2. [Basic Setup Single Machine Selfhost](#basic-setup-single-machine-selfhost)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Basic setup single machine self-host](#basic-setup-single-machine-selfhost)
```

> 2. [Basic Setup Single Machine Selfhost](#basic-setup-single-machine-selfhost)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Basic setup single machine self-host](#basic-setup-single-machine-selfhost)
```

7. [Viewing Firefox DLP data in activity explorer](#viewing-firefox-dlp-data-in-activity-explorer)

### Prepare infrastructure

If you are rolling out the extension to all your monitored Windows 10 devices, you should remove Mozilla Firefox from the unallowed app and unallowed browser lists. For more information, see [Unallowed browsers](dlp-configure-endpoint-settings.md#unallowed-browsers). If you are only rolling it out to a few devices, you can leave Firefox on the unallowed browser or unallowed app lists. The extension will bypass the restrictions of both lists for those computers where it is installed.

### Prepare your devices

1. Use the procedures in these topics to onboard your devices:
    1. [Get started with Endpoint data loss prevention](endpoint-dlp-getting-started.md)
    1. [Onboarding Windows 10 and Windows 11 devices](device-onboarding-overview.md)
    1. [Configure device proxy and internet connection settings for Information Protection](device-onboarding-configure-proxy.md#configure-device-proxy-and-internet-connection-settings-for-information-protection)

> ### Basic Setup Single Machine Selfhost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Basic setup single machine self-host
```

This is the recommended method.

1. Download the initial [XPI file](https://firefoxdlp.blob.core.windows.net/packages-prod/prod-1.1.0.210.xpi).

2. Locate the extension in your file explorer and drag the file into an open Mozilla Firefox window.

3. Confirm the installation.

### Deploy using Microsoft Endpoint Manager

Use this setup method for organization-wide deployments.

> #### Microsoft Endpoint Manager Force Install Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Microsoft Endpoint Manager force install steps
```

> Before adding the extension to the list of force-installed extensions, it is important to ingest the Firefox ADMX. Steps for this process in Microsoft Endpoint Manager are documented below. Before beginning these steps, please ensure you have downloaded the latest Firefox ADMX from the [Firefox GitHub](https://github.com/mozilla/policy-templates/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before adding the extension to the list of force-installed extensions, it is important to ingest the Firefox ADMX. Steps for this process in Microsoft Endpoint Manager follow. Before beginning these steps, ensure you have downloaded the latest Firefox ADMX from the [Firefox GitHub](https://github.com/mozilla/policy-templates/releases).
```

> After ingesting the ADMX, the steps below can be followed to create a configuration profile for this extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After ingesting the ADMX, use the following steps to create a configuration profile for this extension.
```

1. Sign in to the Microsoft Endpoint Manager Admin Center (https://endpoint.microsoft.com).

> 2. Navigate to Configuration Profiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to **Configuration Profiles**.
```

3. Select **Create Profile**.

4. Select **Windows 10** as the platform.

5. Select **Custom** as profile type.

6. Select the **Settings** tab.

7. Select **Add**.

8. Enter the following policy information.

    OMA-URI: `./Device/Vendor/MSFT/Policy/Config/Firefox~Policy~firefox~Extensions/ExtensionSettings`<br/>
    Data type: `String`<br/>
    Value: `<enabled/><data id="ExtensionSettings" value='{ 
                "microsoft.defender.browser_extension.native_message_host@microsoft.com": { 
                    "installation_mode": "force_installed", 
                    "install_url": “https://firefoxdlp.blob.core.windows.net/packages-prod/prod-1.1.0.210.xpi”,
                    “updates_disabled”: false 
                } 
            }'/> `

> 9.  Note: It is critical that updates_disabled is set to false so that the extension can automatically update over time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> It is critical that `updates_disabled` is set to false so that the extension can automatically update over time. 
```

> 10. Click create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Select **Create**.
```

### Deploy using Group Policy

If you don't want to use Microsoft Endpoint Manager, you can use group policies to deploy the extension across your organization.

#### Adding the Chrome Extension to the ForceInstall List

1. In the Group Policy Management Editor, navigate to your OU.

2. Expand the following path **Computer/User configuration** > **Policies** > **Administrative templates** > **Classic administrative templates** > **Firefox** > **Extensions**. This path may vary depending on your configuration.

3. Select **Extensions to install**.

4. Right click and select **Edit**.

5. Select **Enabled**.

6. Select **Show**.

7. Under **Value**, add the following entry: `https://firefoxdlp.blob.core.windows.net/packages-prod/prod-1.1.0.210.xpi`

8. Select **OK** and then **Apply**.

### Test the Extension

> #### Upload to cloud service, or access by unallowed browsers Cloud Egress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Upload to cloud service, or access by unallowed browsers cloud egress
```

> 1. Create or get a sensitive item and, try to upload a file to one of your organization’s restricted service domains. The sensitive data must match one of our built-in [Sensitive Info Types](sensitive-information-type-entity-definitions.md), or one of your organization’s sensitive information types. You should get a DLP toast notification on the device you are testing from that shows that this action is not allowed when the file is open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create or get a sensitive item and try to upload a file to one of your organization’s restricted service domains. The sensitive data must match one of our built-in [Sensitive Info Types](sensitive-information-type-entity-definitions.md), or one of your organization’s sensitive information types. You should get a DLP toast notification on the device you are testing from that shows that this action is not allowed when the file is open.
```

#### Testing other DLP scenarios in Firefox

> Now that you’ve removed Firefox from the disallowed browsers/apps list, you can test the scenarios below to confirm the behavior meets your organization’s requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you’ve removed Firefox from the disallowed browsers and apps list, you can test the scenarios below to confirm the behavior meets your organization’s requirements:
```

> - Copy data from a sensitive item to another document using the Clipboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy data from a sensitive item to another document using the clipboard
```

  - To test, open a file that is protected against copy to clipboard actions in the Firefox browser and attempt to copy data from the file.
  - Expected Result: A DLP toast notification showing that this action is not allowed when the file is open.

> - Print a document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Print a document.
```

  - To test, open a file that is protected against print actions in the Firefox browser and attempt to print the file.
  - Expected Result: A DLP toast notification showing that this action is not allowed when the file is open.

> - Copy to USB Removeable Media

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy to USB removable media
```

>   - To test, try to save the file to a removeable media storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To test, try to save the file to a removable media storage.
```

  - Expected Result: A DLP toast notification showing that this action is not allowed when the file is open.

> - Copy to Network Share

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy to network share
```

  - To test, try to save the file to a network share.
  - Expected Result: A DLP toast notification showing that this action is not allowed when the file is open.

> ### Use the Alerts Management Dashboard to view Firefox DLP alerts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use the alert management dashboard to view Firefox DLP alerts
```

1. Open the **Data loss prevention** page in the <a href="https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2077149" target="_blank">Microsoft Purview compliance portal</a> and select **Alerts**.

> 2. Refer to the procedures in [How to configure and view alerts for your DLP policies](dlp-configure-view-alerts-policies.md) to view alerts for your Endpoint DLP policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Refer to the procedures in [How to configure and view alerts for your DLP policies](dlp-configure-view-alerts-policies.md) to view alerts for your endpoint DLP policies.
```

### Viewing Firefox DLP data in activity explorer

1. Open the [Data classification page](https://compliance.microsoft.com/dataclassification?viewid=overview) for your domain in the <a href="https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2077149" target="_blank">Microsoft Purview compliance portal</a> and choose **Activity explorer**.

> 2. Refer to the procedures in [Get started with Activity explorer](data-classification-activity-explorer.md) to access and filter all the data for your Endpoint devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Refer to the procedures in [Get started with Activity explorer](data-classification-activity-explorer.md) to access and filter all the data for your endpoint devices.
```

> 2. Refer to the procedures in [Get started with Activity explorer](data-classification-activity-explorer.md) to access and filter all the data for your Endpoint devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Refer to the procedures in [Get started with Activity explorer](data-classification-activity-explorer.md) to access and filter all the data for your endpoint devices.
```

   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![activity explorer filter for endpoint devices.](../media/endpoint-dlp-4-getting-started-activity-explorer.png)

> ### Known Issues and Limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Known issues and limitations
```
